this video talks about a couple of
issues that are related at least in my
own mind but I think the fundamental
issue I'm gonna reflect on here is the
middle-aged mentality itself although
I'm drawing on examples that ultimately
relate to veganism to digital vegan
demi-monde and activism you know I had
someone I had someone write to me the
other day someone who's a vegan here on
YouTube and you know she's going through
some problems in her life but nothing
that reflects badly on her nothing
that's her fault problems that from my
perspective are as morally neutral as
getting into a car accident like you
know I don't think you're a bad person
because you got into a car accident and
she said to me look um I can't really
talk to you now because I'm going
through these problems if you want to
cut off communication with me that's
fine I'll understand other vegans on
YouTube already have cut off
communication with me I was I was
shocked and she actually named a couple
people who had who would cut her off I
think you know I'm it was actually the
middle of the school day I wrote her a
quick answer but this was sincere I said
to her um I wouldn't cut off
communication with you if you had
written to me saying that you just got a
new job at a slaughterhouse cutting the
throats of lambs every day I wouldn't
cut off communication with you if you
just told me that you got a new job in
the special department for crimes
against humanity in the American army
you know it's like and some of these
problems people go through the you know
they're making this anonymous not gonna
say but I mean problem she's going
through they're not her fault they're
not ethical decisions they're not loaded
in the way that getting a job at a
slaughterhouse would be and I mean some
people they've tried to make fun of me I
mean I've said also you know I was
joking but I've said also that if I got
a new girlfriend that wouldn't care if
she worked in a slaughterhouse this kind
of thing and that is partly me poking
fun of myself because my whole life
is one long morality lecture above
veganism in case you hadn't noticed so
you do you got a poke fun of yourself
because you can't rely on others to poke
fun at you um but I mean pausing to
reflect why is that
why would I say to someone and again
sincerely you know I still want to be
your friend I still want to know you I
still want to touch you I still want to
work with you in terms of this nascent
movement these baby steps were taking
the words veganism being an important
movement in the world why would I say
that even if somebody really did do
something immoral like that or get-get
some kind of questionable job and a
slaughter I was in there for me
you know part of it it really is the
contrast between the middle-aged
mentality and I guess the mentality that
many of us in Western culture have
coming out of the school system coming
out of high school I think the other
people who cut her off the other people
who said to this vegan like oh lived
this vegan oh I'm leaving arms Oh like
you up you got some problems in
your life so you I don't want to
talk you anymore to me I think that
really reflects a sense that's
inculcated into us in the high school
system that every few months you're
forced into the company of a new room
full of 40-plus people you got new
friends assigned to you new people you
have to work with people are easily
replaced people are constantly being
replaced and of course you're also told
all the time that you're all equal you
know there's that there's a very
understandable social doctrine of
equality that comes with with government
based education a sense that people are
equal interchangeable not just easily
found but that their company is
constantly being thrust on you and in
high school this is my experience you're
constantly being put into work groups
where five strangers like four other
kids you never talk to you before you're
put together and now you got to do a
school project right activism is not a
school project very very few jobs in the
real world once you leave school reflect
that kind of pattern of the school
project of people being thrust into each
other's company I think for me part of
my middle-age perspective on the world
is just an appreciation that people are
eerily pardon me hard to find
irreplaceable can't be substituted for
one another and whatever redeeming
qualities you know that a person has you
know there's both good and bad to it I
think that my fundamental perspective is
one of working with people as they are
not working with people as they should
be and the positive aspect of that is
that what I've already mentioned is that
conventional kinds of people in real
life there are all kinds of people there
all kinds of people where you know bad
things about them there are a compulsive
gambler or they're a former alcoholic
they got there's something wrong with
them there's something bad about them
but you got to ask yourself is this
someone I can work with is this someone
I can't cooperate with in the movement
maybe the answer is yes maybe the answer
is no maybe they have a diagnosed mental
disorder etc etc but you start off with
this positive attitude of I've got to
work with people as they are not as they
should be the negative aspect is again
in contrast maybe to the attitudes you
might have had in high school or that I
feel high school encourages that you you
stop judging people in terms of their
aspirations you stop judging people in
terms of their potential and you just
start judging them in terms of who they
already are what they're already capable
of their current capacity their current
competence so that really cuts both ways
I remember an interview this is just you
guys know I listen to hip-hop it was
just on hip hop media as a former
hip-hop artist a female singer and the
interviewer is asking her about her love
life and she just said in the middle of
this interview I'm past the point where
I judge people based on their potential
I judge people on you know who they are
what they've already done and not not
based on their hopes and dreams not
pasting their potential not based their
aspiration and
maybe that sounds good but it's not it's
actually narrow-minded and doubtless you
know a major part of the middle-age
mentality is really a form of narrow
mindedness you know but I gotta say for
me that's the ambivalence of it and
that's how it fits into you know what
I'm doing on YouTube and this long-term
project that I see my youtube channel is
being of making connections that can be
useful for real activism real advocacy
really building a foundation to make a
difference in the world
real real community you know in some
sense - and and real friends real
friendships on the one hand yeah I was
not joking when I said to that person I
would still accept you I would still
want to be friends yet still want to be
in contact with you if you literally got
a job in the slaughterhouse and frankly
I'd want to know I'd want to know what
perspective know I want to know what
it's like if she got some job in the
military I'd want to hear about that -
I'd be I think I'd be sympathetic maybe
I'm wrong maybe some for that please my
sympathy and we'd stop talking you know
life's full of surprises
you know that that sense of working with
people as they are that's one side of it
but then on the other hand you know
there's a that you you lose the openness
to embracing somebody or working with
somebody not because of who they are not
because of what they've done but just
because of who they aspire to be I think
for most of us when you get into your
30s that disappears from your life and
[Music]
that's an attitude that's pragmatic but
it's maybe a little bit bleak you don't
want to be the guy who when somebody
sits down and talks to you just scoffs
at their dreams but part of middle age I
think is inevitably scoffing at the gap
between people's pretensions and the
reality of what they're doing with their
lives and just to give one example from
you know from my day-to-day experience
here i sat down with someone recently
who said you know she said she respects
all sentient beings equally she eats
meat every day she's not a vegan she's
not vegetarian that's why she said it
you know so there's there's something
that's not looking forward to the future
there it's a gap between what you
practicing what you preach or your
ideals and you really are um you know oh
yeah what does that mean if you really
have equal respect for cows and chickens
and humans I'd say I laughed right there
face it to me that was actually
hilarious you know and if you meet
someone and they're they're still really
trying to sell you on their hopes and
dreams and aspirations their ideals
projected into the future it's hard to
quote an obscure rap song by a little B
you know a lot of people got potential
but who's really holding hey that's it
like whole middle-aged people I guess I
try to have the best of both worlds I
guess really what I want is that the
flexibility and open-mindedness of the
younger attitude but also to have the mm
demanding and more incisive perspective
that I've gained at middle age